---
title: 'Classifiers: The many ways to profile ''one'', a case study of Taiwan Mandarin'
authors: One-Soon Her, Wan-Jun Lai
year: 2012
keywords: []
created: 2025-10-29 15:54:35
---
# Classifiers: The many ways to profile 'one', a case study of Taiwan Mandarin

## 基本信息

- **作者**: World Scientific, Oriental Languages, Research Center, National Chengchi, The Many, Chinese Language, Day Month, Computer Processing, International Journal, Graduate Institute
- **年份**: N/A
- **關鍵詞**: 

## 摘要

None

## 研究背景

## 研究方法

## 主要結果

## 討論與結論

## 個人評論

## 相關文獻

## 完整內容

International Journal of Computer Processing of Oriental Languages
 Chinese Language Computer Society &
World Scientific Publishing Company
Classifiers: The Many Ways to Profile ‘one’
A Case Study of Taiwan Mandarin
ONE-SOON HER
Graduate Institute of Linguistics & Research Center of Mind, Brain, and Learning
National Chengchi University
Taipei, Taiwan
hero@nccu.edu.tw
WAN-JUN LAI
Graduate Institute of Linguistics, National Chengchi University
Taipei, Taiwan
98555001@nccu.edu.tw
Received (Day Month Year)
Revised (Day Month Year)
Accepted (Day Month Year)
Due to the lack of a rigorous methodology and explicit criteria to distinguish between
classifiers (C) and measure words (M), previous inventories of Mandarin C’s, or geti
liangci 個體量詞, vary greatly. Based on the insight that an M in a Chinese [Num C/M N]
phrase is semantically substantive, while a C is semantically redundant and thus does not
block numeral quantification or adjectival modification to the noun, this paper further
proposes that while C/M both function as a multiplicand mathematically, with Num as
the multiplier, C’s value is necessarily 1 and M is not, thus ~1. Cognitively, however, the
semantically redundant C serves to profile an inherent semantic feature of N and thus
selects a narrow class of N’s. With these explicit distinctions between C and M, we then
re-examine the inventory of C’s put forth in國語日報量詞典 Mandarin Daily
News Dictionary of Measure Words and offer a much more reliable list of C’s in Taiwan
Mandarin.
Keywords: classifier; measure word, profile, multiplicand, Taiwan Mandarin.
1. Introduction
Previous studies on Mandarin Chinese classifiers and measure words have come
up with drastically different inventories. One crucial factor for the huge
1

2 One-Soon Her and Wan-Jun Lai
discrepancies is whether classifiers (C), as in (1), and measure words (M), as in
(2), can be meaningfully and accurately distinguished.
(1) a. 一百 尾 金魚
yibai wei jinyu
100 C goldfish
‘100 goldfish’
b. 三 根 鉛筆
san gen qianbi
3 C pencil
‘3 pencils’
c. 十 匹 馬
shi pi ma
10 C horse
‘10 horses’
(2) a. 一百 箱 金魚
yibai xiang jinyu
100 M-box goldfish
‘100 box of goldfish’
b. 三 公斤 香蕉
san gongjin 鉛筆
3 M-kilo pencil
‘3 kilos of pencils’
c. 十 群 馬
shi qun ma
10 M-herd horse
‘10 herds of horses’
Even for those that do support a formal C/M distinction, such distinctions
have not been made explicit, and many works on C/M simply assume that C and
M are distinguishable and distinguish the two rather subjectively. An informal
but insightful characterization is offered in Tai and Wang [1, p.38]:
A classifier categorizes a class of nouns by picking out some salient
perceptual properties, either physically or functionally based, which are
permanently associated with entities named by the class of nouns; a

Classifiers in Taiwan Mandarin 3
measure word does not categorize but denotes the quantity of the entity
named by noun.
For natural language processing, how to make a formal distinction is
obviously an important issue, as one of the most distinctive characteristics of
Chinese is the C’s, not the M’s. For example, in a machine translation system for
Chinese and English, most C’s in Chinese have no counterparts in English, while
most M’s do, and for the reverse direction, most M’s in the English [Num M of N]
construction can receive straightforward translations in the Chinese [Num M N]
construction, but the English [Num N ] sequence must be turned into [Num C
count
N] in Chinese, where the insertion and choice of C affects grammaticality and
facility.
In spite of the same syntactic position C/M occupy in the [Num C/M N]
sequence, in this paper we will fully justify the C/M distinction from three
perspectives: semantic, mathematical, and cognitive. Section 2 first summarizes
the explicit tests developed in [2] based on C/M’s semantic distinction. Section 3
then characterizes the C/M distinction in set-theoretic terms. In section 4, we
follow [2] and [3] and propose that C/M both function as a multiplicand
mathematically, with Num as the multiplier, where C is necessarily of the value 1
and M is not. From a cognitive linguistic point of view, section 5 then approaches
the issue from the standpoint of cognitive linguistics and shows that the
semantically and mathematically null C nonetheless functions to profile an
inherent semantic aspect of the head noun. This strict distinction of C versus M
makes it possible to identify true classifiers in a language. A report is given in
section 6 on the classifiers identified from the category of ‘general measure
words’ listed in 國語日報量詞典 Mandarin Daily News Dictionary of Measure
Words [13], a dictionary based on Taiwan Mandarin data in the Sinica Corpus.
2. Formal Tests to Distinguish Classifiers and Measure Words
Her and Hsieh [4] observe that the two formal tests, i.e., de-insertion and
adjectival modification, which proponents for the C/M distinction proposed
previously, have been shown to be unreliable [5][6]. However, based on the
insight that M, but not C, constitutes a barrier to numeral quantification and
adjectival modification, they refine the previous two tests and come up with
much more reliable and accurate formulations (Test A, B). They also restate ge-
substitution as a heuristic (Test C) and observe that temporary measure words are
often restricted to the number yi ‘one’ (Test D).
Test A: Numeral/Adjectival Stacking
(1) If [Num X Num Y N] is well-formed, then X = M and Y = C/M.

4 One-Soon Her and Wan-Jun Lai
e.g., 一箱十個蘋果, 一箱十包蘋果 vs. *一顆十包蘋果, *一顆十粒蘋
果
(2) If [Num A-X N] = [Num X A-N] semantically, then X = C and X ≠ M.
e.g., 一大顆蘋果 = 一顆大蘋果 vs. 一大箱蘋果 ≠ 一箱大蘋果
(3) Given antonyms A and A , if [Num A -X A -N] is semantically
1 2 1 2
well-formed, then X = M.
e.g., *一大顆小蘋果 vs. 一大箱小蘋果
(4) If [A-X de N] is semantically equivalent to [A-N], then X = C.
e.g.,大顆的蘋果 = 大蘋果 vs. 大箱的蘋果 ≠ 大蘋果
Test B: De-insertion
Test: [yi M/*C de N]
e.g., 一箱(的)蘋果 vs. 一顆(*的)蘋果
Test C: Ge-substitution
Test: If [Num X N] = [Num ge N] semantically, then X = C.
i j i j
e.g., 十粒蘋果 = 十個蘋果 ≠ 十箱蘋果
3. Semantic Distinction between Classifiers and Measure Words
Her and Hsieh [4] further employ the Aristotelian distinction between essential
and accidental properties as well as the Kantian distinction between analytic and
synthetic propositions to characterize the C/M distinction: C is semantically
redundant; M is semantically substantive. Precisely, C indicates an essential
property of the noun, and can be paraphrased as the predicate concept in an
analytic proposition with the noun as the subject concept; M indicates an
accidental property in terms of quantity, and can be restated as the predicate
concept in a synthetic proposition with the noun as the subject concept. Given
this characterization, M can be demonstrated to be more of a content word, thus
open to innovations, while C is more a function word, thus forms a closed set
resistant to innovations.
The semantic distinction of C/M can receive a mathematical interpretation
in set-theoretic terms. In short, properties denoted by C do not contribute to the
total compositional semantic content of the phrase. M, on the other hand, is
semantically substantive in [Num M N] and thus does contribute semantic value
specific to M only. This contrast can be made explicit in terms of set theory.
C/M Distinction in Set-theoretic Terms
Given a well-formed phrase [Num K N], X the set of
properties denoted by K, and Y the set of properties denoted
by N, K is C if X Y; otherwise, K is M.
⊂

Classifiers in Taiwan Mandarin 5
The fact that C does not contribute any semantic value to the semantics of
the overall [Num C N] phrase is not because it has no semantic value itself;
rather, again, it is because it does not contribute any semantic property that the
noun does not already possess. This total overlap of semantic properties between
C and N is the reason why modification or quantification on C is also on N. M,
on the other hand, does contribute semantic properties to the [Num M N] phrase
that N does not possess, and any modification or quantification on M thus does
not extend to N. Therefore, the following three expressions with the same Num
and N share exactly the same truth value, i.e., three fish, in spite of the different
C’s: 三隻魚san zhi yu = 三條魚san tiao yu = 三尾魚san wei yu; yet, with each
C replaced with a different M, each expression now has its own unique truth
value, e.g., 三磅魚san bang yu ‘three pounds of fish’ ≠ 三箱魚san xiang yu
‘three boxes of fish’ ≠ 三打魚 san da yu ‘three dozens of fish’.
4. Classifiers and Measure Words as Multiplicands
Most importantly, extending and integrating Landman’s [7] view of C/M as
parcelers, Borer’s [7] insight that classifiers in Chinese and the plural suffix /-s/
function the same as dividers, and Au Young’s [9][10] findings of the
mathematical multiplication basis of classifiers, we propose that there is a
multiplication relation between Num and C/M, i.e., [Num C/M] = [multiplier ×
multiplicand], but the crucial C/M distinction in terms of their mathematical
value is that C’s value is necessarily 1, and M’s value is not necessarily 1, thus
~1. In other words, an M can have any mathematical value, permanent or
temporary, numerical or non-numerical, as long as it is not necessarily 1, while a
C must always be translated to the numerical value of 1 and 1 only.
The mathematics proposed here that C is the multiplicand of the value 1 also
formalizes the long-standing view that C serves to individuate the following N
(e.g., [11] and [12]). Furthermore, the mathematics of C/M also provides another
explanation why expressions with the same Num and N shall have the same truth
value regardless of the different C’s used, e.g., again, 三隻魚san zhi yu = 三條
魚san tiao yu = 三尾魚san wei yu, but the same is not true for M, e.g., again, 三
磅魚san bang yu ‘three pounds of fish’ ≠ 三箱魚san xiang yu ‘three boxes of
fish’ ≠ 三打魚 san da yu ‘three dozens of fish’.
Thus, C, as the (redundant) multiplicand 1, can be omitted, if stylistically
required, without affecting the truth value of the nominal phrase, but M cannot.
Mathematical Distinction of C/M
Given [Num X N], X = C iff X =1; otherwise, X = M.
e.g., [五張餅 = 五×1餅 = 五餅] vs. [五打餅 = 五×12餅 ≠ 五餅];
[二條魚 = 二×1魚 = 二魚] vs. [二斤魚 = 二×斤 魚 ≠ 二魚]

6 One-Soon Her and Wan-Jun Lai
Under this view of simple mathematics, the many classifiers in Chinese,
while denoting an intricate system of classifying nouns, can be seen as many
ways to profile some intrinsic semantic aspects of the nouns and ultimately the
mathematical value of one. The concept of profile will be presented in the next
section. This mathematical interpretation of C/M further explains why C, as the
superfluous multiplicand 1, may be optional, while M is obligatory, and also why
C is semantically null and thus transparent to numeral quantification and
adjectival modification, while M is not. Finally, note that under this mathematical
interpretation of C/M, English lacks measure words altogether, given the fact that
its multiplicand is restricted to 1 and grammaticalized as the nominal suffix -s
and thus no longer part of the numeral and must be part of the head noun. Thus,
Borer [8], contra to common misconceptions, is exactly right that English plural
maker /-s/ is a C. We thus follow through and claim that while English plural
suffix /-s/ is a C similar to the Chinese generic C ge, English has no measure
words and putative M’s should in fact be treated simply as common nouns.
Distinction between Chinese and English
Chinese: [Num X N], X=1 (C) or ~1 (M)
e.g., 3 × 1book = 三本書; 3 × pile book = 三堆書
English: [Num X N], Num>1 and X=1 (C)
e.g., 3 × 1book = 3 –s book = 3 books; 3 × 1pile = 3 –s pile = 3 piles
5. Classifiers as Profilers
Besides the functions of a pacrcler [7], divider [8], and multiplicand [9][10],
which C/M have in common, C, being semantically and mathematically
redundant, is shown to have the unique function as a profiler [13]. The notion of
profile/base segregation has a strong connection to gestalt psychology, a
comprehensive model of perception organization. Langacker [14] illustrates the
notion of domain/profile by the example of circle/arc.
(a) CIRCLE (b) ARC
domain: space domain: circle

Classifiers in Taiwan Mandarin 7
Similarly, Hsieh [6] and Her [3] argue that in a [Num C N] phrase, N can be
seen as the base, or likewise the ‘frame’, in the sense of Fillmore’s frame
semantics [15], and C the profile. Below, in the example of 一把壺 yi ba hu ‘a
teapot’, it is shown that the teapot provides the frame or base for ba to profile, or
to highlight, the handle, an inherent semantic feature of teapot.
big opening lid
handle
small opening
discrete unit round shape
Under this view, the classifiers’ function of classification is merely a by-
product of their function as profilers. This thus explains at least partially why in
Chinese or any other classifier language, there are always numerous
idiosyncrasies or gaps in the noun classes categorized by classifier. 1
6. Identifying True Classifiers in Taiwan Mandarin
Based on the discussions above, we are now able to properly define C/M, both
occurring between Num and N and serving as the multiplicand mathematically,
with Num as the multiplier. However, C serves as an individuating unit, which
also must profile a (bundle of) inherent semantic feature(s) of an N that denotes
an intrinsically discrete entity; thus, mathematically, C’s value is necessarily
numerical and precisely 1. M, on the other hand, whose mathematical value can
be anything except 1 and thus may or may not be numerical, provides a
measuring unit of N and thus does not profile any inherent semantic feature of
1 For a full exploration of the profiler analysis of classifiers, refer to the thesis by Hsieh [13], for
which the first author of this current paper served as the adviser.

8 One-Soon Her and Wan-Jun Lai
the N. Consequent of these properties, C/M can be distinguished by the formal
tests developed in section 2.
Only with such a precise characterization of C, is it feasible and practical to
attempt a comprehensive list of C’s in a language. However, we do not intend to
provide such a comprehensive list of C’s in Taiwan Mandarin and will only
attempt a partial list based on Mandarin Daily Dictionary of Chinese Classifiers
[16] (MDDCC hereafter). 2 MDDCC was compiled with data from the Academia
Sinica Balanced Corpus of Modern Mandarin Chinese, a corpus that largely
reflects Taiwan Mandarin. Seven categories of measure words (C/M) are
identified, and the first category, called 一般量詞yiban liangci ‘general measure
words’, is intended to be precisely what is defined as C in this paper. Table 1
shows the 173 C’s listed in MDDCC. 3
Table 1: 173 Classifiers listed in MDDCC
ba3把 dian3點 hang2行 ke1顆 pi3匹 tao4套 zhao1招
ban1班 die2疊 hao4號 ke4客 pian1篇 ti2題 zhen1針
ban3版 ding3頂 hu4戶 ke4課 pian4片 tiao2條 zheng4幀
ban4瓣 ding4錠 hui2回 kou3口 piao4票 tie4帖 zhi1支
bang1幫 dong4棟 huo3夥 kuai4塊 pie3撇 ting3挺 zhi1只
ben3本 du3堵 ji2級 kuan3款 pou2抔 tou2頭 zhi1枝
bi3筆 duan4段 ji2集 kun3捆 qi2畦 tuan2團 zhi1隻
bing3柄 dui1堆 ji2輯 lan2欄 qi2期 tuo2坨 zhi3紙
bu4部 dui4隊 ji4記 li4粒 qi3起 wan1彎 zhou2軸
cai2槽 dui4對 ji4劑 lian2聯 qu3曲 wan1灣 zhu1株
ce4冊 duo3朵 jia1家 liang4輛 quan1圈 wan2丸 zhu4柱
ceng2層 fa1發 jia4架 lie4列 que4闋 wei3尾 zhu4炷
chong2重 fang1方 jian1間 liu3綹 qun2群 wei4位 zhuo1桌
chu4處 fang2房 jian4件 lu4路 shan4扇 wei4味 zong1宗
chuan4串 fen4分 jie1階 lun2輪 shen1身 xi2席 zu3組
chuang2床 fen4份 jie2節 luo4落 sheng1聲 xi2襲 zun1尊
chuang2幢 feng1封 jie2截 lyu3旅 shou3首 xian4線 zuo4座
cong2叢 fu2服 jie4介 lyu3縷 shu4束 xiang4項
cu4簇 fu2幅 jin4進 mei2枚 shuang1雙 ye4頁
cuo1撮 fu4副 jing1莖 men2門 si1絲 ye4葉
2 For example, in this paper we will not discuss event measure words, another class identified in
MDDCC, even though many of them can also be found to be genuine C’s. For a more
comprehensive inventory of C’s in Taiwan Mandarin, the reader is referred to the second author’s
MA thesis [19], for which the first author again served as the advisor.
3 In the introduction section of MDDCC, it is stated that a total of 174 general measure words are
listed in the dictionary. However, we were able to find only 173 of them, in spite of repeated efforts.

Classifiers in Taiwan Mandarin 9
da3打 gan3桿 ju4句 mian4面 sou1艘 yuan2員
dai4 代 gen1根 ju4具 ming2名 suo3所 ze2則
dai4帶 ge個 juan3卷 pai2排 tai1胎 zha1紮
dang3檔 gu3股 juan4卷 peng3捧 tai2台 zhan3盞
dao4道 gua4掛 ke1科 pi1匹 tan1攤 zhang1張
di1滴 guan3管 ke1棵 pi1批 tang2堂 zhang1章
In one the introduction sections of MDDCC, entitled The Usage and
Classification of Measure Words, the editors in fact offer no explicit criteria for
the selection of these 174 C’s. The only relevant characterization is this:「一般
量詞是最典型的量詞…和數詞搭配用來記量物品的數量」(General measure
words are the most prototypical measure words…they collocate with numbers
and are used to count the number of things ) [16, p.10-11]. One of the several
examples given in this section, 蔥兩把 cong liang ba ‘green-onions, two
handfuls’, in fact involves 把ba ‘handful’ as an M, not C.4 A more serious
misconception is the inclusion of measure words that refer to groups or
collections: 「…有些一般量詞則是用來記量物品組成集合後的數量，如
「一群人、一對手錶、一束花、一批外套」。」(…some of the general
measure words, however, refer to a collection of entities, for example, ‘a group
of people’, ‘a pair of watches’, ‘a bundle of flowers’, and ‘a batch of coats’.) [16,
p.11]. These are M’s, not C’s, as the reader can run the tests and find out, for they
all have mathematical values that are not 1 and do not profile any inherent feature
of the N. Thus, it seems that, like most, if not all, previous inventories of C’s, the
selection in this dictionary is also based on rather subjective judgments.
According to [17], a paper co-authored by the first editor of the dictionary,
there are two ways to distinguish C/M that can be found in the relevant literature.
One is by way of the de-insertion test, where a [Num C] sequence resists de-
insertion, while -de can be freely inserted after [Num M]. Recent works, most
notably [4], [5], and [18], have proven this test highly unreliable, using both
corpus data and solicited data. What we have adopted in this paper is Test B in
section 2, where only the Num 1, thus [yi C], is found to be resistant to de-
insertion. The other criterion advocated in [17] is based on the informal
characterization by Tai and Wang [1], quoted in section 1, i.e., C categorizes a
particular type of N and also picks out a salient property of N, but M does not.
These informal criteria can be rather subjective. In comparison, our methodology,
while maintaining Tai and Wang’s [1] conception of C/M distinction and
reinterpreting it in terms of the concept of profiling, employs the three sets of
formal tests developed in section 2 and also the mathematically precise test that
C has the exact value of numeral 1 and M does not.
4 把ba can indeed be a C and profiles the part of an article that functions as a handle, e.g., 一把刀
yi ba dao ‘one knife’.

10 One-Soon Her and Wan-Jun Lai
We have therefore carefully re-examined the 173 items and come up with a
revised list of true classifiers. In order to be more accurate, Table 2 shows the 76
items that are C’s and C’s only, and Table 3 shows the 21 items that can function
as both C’s and M’s. Thus, out of MDDC’s 173 putative C’s, all together only 97
are confirmed to be genuine C’s. A total of 76 items in MDDC’s 173 C’s are in
fact M’s, not C’s, as shown in Table 4.
Table 2: 76 Classifiers out of the MDDCC’s 173
yi1 ben3 shu1 yi1 jian4 da4yi1 yi1 ting3 ji1qiang1
ben3本 jian4件 ting3挺
一本書 一件大衣 一挺機槍
yi1 bi3 shou1ru4 yi1 jie4 shu1sheng1 yi1 tou2 da4xiang4
bi3筆 jie4介 tou2頭
一筆收入 一介書生 一頭大象
yi1 wan1
yi1 bing3 fu3tou2 yi1 jing1 bai2fa3
bing3柄 jing1莖 wan1彎 ming2yue4
一柄斧頭 一莖白髮
一彎明月
yi1 ce4 shu1 yi1 ju4 kou3hao4 yi1 wan1 liu2shui3
ce4冊 ju4句 wan1灣
一冊書 一句口號 一灣流水
yi1 chu4
yi1 ju4 shi1ti3 yi1 wan2 yao4wan2
chu4處 shang1kou3 ju4具 wan2丸
一具屍體 一丸藥丸
一處傷口
yi1 chuang2 yi1 juan3
chuang2 yi1 wei3 yu2
mian2bei4 juan3卷 lu4yin1dai4 wei3尾
床 一尾魚
一床棉被 一卷錄音帶
yi1 chuang2
chuang2 yi1 ke1 song1shu4 yi1 wei4 lao3shi1
lou2fang2 ke1棵 wei4位
幢 一棵松樹 一位老師
一幢樓房
yi1 dang3 gu3piao4 yi1 ke1 xi1gua1 yi1 xi2 dong3shi4
dang3檔 ke1顆 xi2席
一檔股票 一顆西瓜 一席董事
yi1 dao4
yi1 li4 hong2dou4 yi1 xi2 bo2sha1
dao4道 zhuan1qiang2 li4粒 xi2襲
一粒紅豆 一襲薄紗
一道磚牆
yi1 ding3 mao4zi liang4 yi1 liang4 jing3che1 yi1 yuan2 da4jiang4
ding3頂 yuan2員
一頂帽子 輛 一輛警車 一員大將
yi1 ding4 yi1 mei2
yi1 ze2 xiao4hua4
ding4錠 yuan2bao3 mei2枚 jiang3zhang1 ze2則
一則笑話
一錠元寶 一枚獎章
yi1 dong4 da4 lou2 mian4 yi1 mian4 jing4zi yi1 zhan3 deng1
dong4棟 zhan3盞
一棟大樓 面 一面鏡子 一盞燈
yi1 ming2
yi1 du3 qiang2 ming2 zhang1 yi1 zhang1 chunag2
du3堵 xue2sheng1
一堵牆 名 張 一張床
一名學生
yi1 duo3 mei2gui1 yi1 pi1 ma3 yi1 zhao1 ce4lüe4
duo3朵 pi1匹 zhao1招
一朵玫瑰 一匹馬 一招策略
fa1發 yi1 fa1 zi3dan4 pian1篇 yi1 pian1 zheng4 yi1zheng4

Classifiers in Taiwan Mandarin 11
一發子彈 wen2zhang1 幀 jie2hun1zhao4
一篇文章 一幀結婚照
yi1 fang1
yi1 qi2 dao4tian2 yi1 zhi1 jiu3tan2
fang1方 yin4zhang1 qi2畦 zhi1只
一畦稻田 一只酒罈
一方印章
yi1 qu3
yi4 feng1xin4 zhi1枝 yi1 zhi1 shu4zhi1
feng1封 qu3曲 liu2xing2ge1
一封信 一枝樹枝
一曲流行歌
yi1 fu2 hua4 yi1 que4 gu3ci2 yi1 zhi1 mao1
fu2幅 que4闋 zhi1隻
一幅畫 一闋古詞 一隻貓
yi1 zhi3
yi1 gan3 qiang1 shan4 yi1 shan4 men2
gan3桿 zhi3紙 qie4jie2shu1
一桿槍 扇 一扇門
一紙切結書
yi1 sheng1
yi1 gen1 tou2fa3 sheng1 yi1 zhou2 hua4
gen1根 jian1jiao4 zhou2軸
一根頭髮 聲 一軸畫
一聲尖叫
yi1 ge ren2 shou3 yi1 shou3 er2ge1 yi1 zhu1ying1hua1
ge個 zhu1株
一個人 首 一首兒歌 一株櫻花
yi1 shu4
yi1 guan3 mao2bi3 yi1 sao1 chuang2
guan3管 sao1艘 zhu4柱 dian4xian4gan1
一管毛筆 一艘船
一柱電線杆
yi1 ji4
yi1 suo3 da4xue2 yi1 shu4 xiang1
ji4記 zuo3gou1quan2 suo3所 zhu4炷
一所大學 一炷香
一記右勾拳
yi1 jie4
yi1 ti2 xuan3ze2ti2 yi1 zun1 fo2xiang4
ji4劑 qiang2xin1ji4 ti2題 zun1尊
一題選擇題 一尊佛像
一劑強心劑
yi1 jia4 fei1ji1 yi1 tiao2 wei2jing1 yi1 zuo4 shan1
jia4架 tiao2條 zuo4座
一架飛機 一條圍巾 一座山
yi1 jian1 shu1dian4
jian1間
一間書店
Table 3: 21 dual status C/M out of the MDDCC’s 173 Classifiers
yi1 ba3 dao1zi yi1 ba3 tong2ban3
ba3把 ba3把c ba3把m
一把刀子 一把銅板
yi1 ban1 fei1ji1 yi1 ban1 xue2sheng1
ban1班 ban1班c ban1班m
一班飛機 一班學生
yi1 ban4 hua1ban4 yi1 ban4 ju2zi
ban4瓣 ban4瓣c ban4瓣m
一瓣花瓣 一瓣橘子
yi1 bu4 qi4che1 yi1 bu4 shu1
bu4部 bu4部c bu4部m
一部汽車 一部書
yi1 dian3 zhi4 yi1 dian3 qian2
dian3點 dian3點c dian3點m
一點痣 一點錢

12 One-Soon Her and Wan-Jun Lai
yi1 fen4 bao4gao4 yi1 fen4 qing2yi4
fen4分 fen4分c fen4分m
一分報告 一分情意
yi1 fen4 bao4gao4 yi1 fen4 qing2yi4
fen4份 fen4份c fen4份m
一份報告 一份情意
yi1 jia1 gong1si1 yi1 jia1 ao4zhou1ren2
jia1家 jia1家c jia1家m
一家公司 一家澳洲人
yi1 jie2 che1xiang1 yi1 jie2 gan1zhe4
jie2節 jie2節c jie2節m
一節車廂 一節甘蔗
yi1 kou3 jing3 yi1 kou3 zhu4ya2
kou3口 kou3口c kou3口m
一口井 一口蛀牙
yi1 kuai4 zhuan1tou2 yi1 kuai4 di4
kuai4塊 kuai4塊c kuai4塊m
一塊磚頭 一塊地
yi1 lun2 ming2yue4 yi1 lun2 bi3sai4
lun2輪 lun2輪c lun2輪m
一輪明月 一輪比賽
yi1 lü3 xian4 yi1 lü3 qing1yan1
lü3縷 lü3縷c lü3縷m
一縷線 一縷清煙
yi1 men2 da4pao4 yi1 men2 sheng1yi4
men2門 men2門c men2門m
一門大砲 一門生意
yi1 pian4 shu4ye4 yi1 pian4 nai3you2
pian4片 pian4片c pian4片m
一片樹葉 一片奶油
yi1 qi3 yi4wai4 yi1 qi3 ren2ma3
qi3起 qi3起c qi3起m
一起意外 一起人馬
yi1 tai2 dian4shi4 yi1 tai2 ge1zai3xi4
tai2台 tai2台c tai2台m
一台電視 一台歌仔戲
yi1 xian4 che1dao4 yi1 xian4 xi1wang4
xian4線 xian4線c xian4線m
一線車道 一線希望
yi1 ye4 pian1zhou1 yi1 ye4 shu1
ye4葉 ye4葉c ye4葉m
一葉扁舟 一葉書
yi1 zhi1
yi1 zhi1 ge1
zhi1支 zhi1支c zhi1支m chun2mao2sha1
一支歌
一支純毛紗
yi1 zong1 yi4wai4 yi1 zong1 huo4wu4
zong1宗 zong1宗c zong1宗m
一宗意外 一宗貨物
Table 4: 76 Measure Words out of the MDDCC’s 173 Classifiers
yi1 ban3 ba1shi2hui2 yi1 piao4
hui2
ban3版 xin1wen2 hong2lou2meng4 piao4票 sheng1yi4
回
一版新聞 八十回紅樓夢 一票生意
yi1 bang1
bang1 huo3 yi1 huo3 qiang2dao4 yi1 pie3 hu2xu1
gong1ren2 pie3撇
幫 夥 一夥強盜 一撇鬍鬚
一幫工人
cao2槽 yi1 cao2 ya2 ji2級 yi1 ji2 shi2jie1 pou2抔 yi1 pou2 tu3

Classifiers in Taiwan Mandarin 13
一槽牙 一級石階 一抔土
ceng2 yi1 ceng2 lou2 yi1bai3ji2 lian2xu4ju4 za2zhi4 di4yi1qi2
ji2集 qi2期
層 一層樓 一百集連續劇 雜誌第一期
wan4 chong2
chong2 cong2shu1 di4yi1ji2 yi1 quan2 liu3shu4
shan1 ji2輯 quan1圈
重 叢書第一輯 一圈柳樹
萬重山
yi1 chuan4 yi1 qun2
chuan4 yi1 jie1 lou2ti1
fo2zhu1 jie1階 qun2群 peng2you3
串 一階樓梯
一串佛珠 一群朋友
yi1 cong2
cong2 yi1 jie2 zhu2zi yi1 shen1 yi1shang
ye3cao3 jie2截 shen1身
叢 一截竹子 一身衣裳
一叢野草
yi1 cu4
jin4 yi1 jin4 fang2zi yi1 shu4 xian1hua1
cu4簇 mei2gui1 shu4束
進 一進房子 一束鮮花
一簇玫瑰
yi1 cuo1
juan4 za2zhi4 di4yi1juan4 shuang1 yi1 shuang1 xie2
cuo1撮 mao2fa3
卷 雜誌第一卷 雙 一雙鞋
一撮毛髮
yi1 da3
ying1wan2yi1ke1 yi1 si1 rou4
da3打 qian1bi3 ke1科 si1絲
英文一科 一絲肉
一打鉛筆
shang4 yi1 dai4
yi1 ke4 niu2pai2 yi1 tai1 xiao3gou3
dai4 代 ren2 ke4客 tai1胎
一客牛排 一胎小狗
上一代人
yi1 dai4
yi1 ke4 shu4xue2 yi1 tan1 shui3
dai4帶 yu2cun1 ke4課 tan1灘
一課數學 一灘水
一帶漁村
yi1 di1 yan3lei4 kuan3 di4yi1kuan3 gui1ding4 yi1 tang2 jia1ju4
di1滴 tang2堂
一滴眼淚 款 第一款規定 一堂傢具
yi1 die2
kun3 yi1 kun3 dao4cao3 yi1 tao4 can1ju4
die2疊 chao1piao4 tao4套
捆 一捆稻草 一套餐具
一疊鈔票
yi1 duan4 yi1 tie4
duan4 lan2 yi1 lan2 xin1wen2
gan1zhe4 tie4帖 zhong1yao4
段 欄 一欄新聞
一段甘蔗 一帖中藥
yi1 tuan2
yi1 dui1 tu3 lian2 er4lian2shou1ju4
dui1堆 tuan2團 shi4bing1
一堆土 聯 二聯收據
一團士兵
yi1 dui4
yi1 lie4 luo4tuo2 yi1 tuo2 nai3you2
dui4隊 shi4bing1 lie4列 tuo2坨
一列駱駝 一坨奶油
一隊士兵
yi1 dui4 fu1qi1 liu3 yi1 liu3 tou2fa3 hun1cai4 wu3wei4
dui4對 wei4味
一對夫妻 綹 一綹頭髮 葷菜五味
yi1 fang2 yi1 lu4 ren2ma3 xing2fa3
fang2房 lu4路 xiang4項
er2sun1 一路人馬 di4ti1xiang4

14 One-Soon Her and Wan-Jun Lai
一房兒孫 刑法第一項
yi1 fu2
luo4 yi1 luo4 bao4zhi3 yi1 ye4 shu1
fu2服 zhong1yao4 ye4頁
落 一落報紙 一頁書
一服中藥
yi1 fu4 kuai4zi yi1 lü3 bu4dui4 yi1 zha1 zhi3hua1
fu4副 lü3旅 zha1紮
一副筷子 一旅部隊 一紮紙花
yi1 gu3 di4yi1zhang1
pai2 yi1 pai2 shi4bing1 zhang1
gu3股 xiang1qi4 nei4rong2第一章
排 一排士兵 章
一股香氣 內容
yi1 gua4 yi1 xhen1
peng3 yi1 peng3 sha1
gua4掛 fo2zhu1 zhen1針 qiang2xin1ji4一針
捧 一捧沙
一掛佛珠 強心劑
yi1 hang2
hang2 yi1 pi1 huo4 yi1 zhuo1 cai4
liu3shu4 pi1批 zhuo1桌
行 一批貨 一桌菜
一行柳樹
yi1 hu4
yi1 pi3 bu4 yi1 zu3 ren2yuan2
hu4戶 nong2min2 pi3匹 zu3組
一匹布 一組人員
一戶農民
di4yi1hao4
hao4號’ dao4lu4
第一號道路
7. Concluding Remarks
The precise distinction of classifiers (C) and measure words (M) in a classifier
language like Chinese is an important issue for natural language processing, as
one of the most distinctive characteristics of Chinese is its C’s, not its M’s. For
example, in a machine translation system for Chinese and English, most C’s in
Chinese have no counterparts in English, while most M’s do, and in the reverse
direction, while most M’s in English can receive straightforward translations in
Chinese, [Num N ] sequences must be turned into [Num C N] in Chinese.
count
The insertion of a semantically appropriate C is crucial for grammaticality as
well as facility. Based on Her and Hsieh’s [4] insight that M in a Chinese [Num
C/M N] phrase is semantically substantive, while C is semantically redundant
and thus does not block the numeral quantification or the adjectival modification
to the noun, this paper further proposes a formal distinction of C/M from a
mathematical perspective. Synthesizing the concepts of parceler [7], divider [8],
and multiplicand [9][10], we follow [2] [3] and propose that while C/M both
function as a multiplier mathematically, C’s value is necessarily 1 and M is not,
thus ~1. The semantically null C nonetheless functions to profile an inherent
semantic aspect of N. Finally, based on these strict distinctions of C versus M, a

Classifiers in Taiwan Mandarin 15
report is given on the true classifiers identified in國語日報量詞典 Mandarin
Daily News Dictionary of Measure Words [16].
Acknowledgments
We thank the anonymous reviewers and the audience of CLSW2011 as well as
the guest editors and the two anonymous reviewers of this IJCPOL special issue
for their insightful comments. Comments, whether supportive or critical, from
the latter reviewers were especially constructive and helpful in further clarifying
the central issues discussed in the paper. Yet, we are solely responsible for any
remaining errors. The findings reported here on the inventory of classifiers in
Taiwan Mandarin have been presented as part of the second author’s MA thesis
[19], for which the first author served as the supervisor.
References
[1] Tai, J. and L. Wang. 1990. A semantic study of the classifier Tiao. Journal of
the Chinese Language Teachers Association 25(1) (1990) 35-56.
[2] Her, O. Distinguishing classifiers and measure words. Paper presented at the
4th Conference on Language, Discourse and Cognition (CLDC2010),
National Taiwan University, Taipei, May 1-2, 2010.
[3] Her, O. Structure of classifiers and measure words: A Lexical Functional
account, invited talk given at the 16th International Lexical Functional
Grammar Conference (LFG2011), University of Hong Kong, July 16-19,
2011.
[4] Her, O. and C. Hsieh. On the semantic distinction between classifiers and
measure words, Language and Linguistics 11(3) (2010) 527-550.
[5] Zhang, N. The constituency of classifier constructions in Mandarin Chinese,
Taiwan Journal of Linguistics 9 (1) (2011) 1-50.
[6] Hsieh, M. The Internal Structure of Noun Phrases in Chinese (Taiwan
Journal of Linguistics: Book Series in Chinese Linguistics. No. 2. Crane
Publishing, Taipei, 2008).
[7] Landman, F. Indefinites and the Type of Sets (Blackwell, Malden, MA, 2004).
[8] Borer, H. Structuring Sense. Vol. 1. In Name Only. (Oxford University Press,
Oxford 2005).

16 One-Soon Her and Wan-Jun Lai
[9] Au-Yeung, B. An Interface Program for Parameterization of Classifiers in
Chinese (PhD Thesis, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology,
2005).
[10] Au Yeung, B. Multiplication basis of emergence of classifier, Language and
Linguistics 8(4) (2007) 835-861.
[11] Aikhenvald, A. Classifiers: a typology of noun categorization devices
(Oxford Studies in Typology and Linguistic Theory. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2000).
[12] Bisang, W. Areal typology and grammaticalization: Processes of
grammaticalization based on nouns and verbs in East and mainland South
East Asian languages, Studies in Language 20(3) (1996) 519-597.
[13] Hsieh, C. A Frame-based Approach to Classifiers: A Case Study of Taiwan
Mandarin (MA Thesis, National Chengchi University, 2009).
[14] Langacker, R. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Vol. I: Theoretical
Prerequisites, (Stanford University Press,1987).
[15] Fillmore, C. Frame semantics, in Linguistics in the Morning Calm, ed.
Linguistic Society of Korea, (Hanshin Publishing, Seoul, 1982) 111-137.
[16] Huang, C., K. Chen, and C. Lai (eds.) Mandarin Daily Dictionary of Chinese
Classifiers (Mandarin Daily Press, Taipei, 1997).
[17] Huang, C. and K. Ahrens. Individuals, Kind and Events: Classifier Coercion
of Nouns. Language Sciences 25(4) (2003) 353-373.
[18] Li, X. 2011. On the semantics of classifiers in Chinese.. (Ph.D. Dissertation,
Bar-Ilan University, 2011). Available online at:
http://www.semanticsarchive.net/Archive/mY3YWYzO/.
Accessed on 2011/09/018.
[19] Lai, W. Identifying True Classifiers in Taiwan Mandarin (MA Thesis,
National Chengchi University, 2011).

## 引用

```

```
